1.
XML and JSON are similar in the fact that they can be used for a lot of same situations. If you can solve something with JSON, you can probably solve it with XML as well. Both are ways of exchanging document/data that is readable both to a human and to a computer.
The main difference between XML and JSON is that XML is for encoding documents and JSON is for encoding data. JSON is simpler to write and read, not as verbose as XML where you need < and ending tags and such. Also simpler for a computer to process. XML uses tree structures where JSON uses an object structure that is much easier to translate into a programming language. In this case where we use JavaScript and Python we don't need to parse the JSON object, it translates naturally into variables.

2.
It is not possible in the "real" way that websockets use, without plugins like flash or silverlight. It is possible to use workaround to get behaviour like websockets. One alternative is that the client makes frequent request to the server, asking if there has been an update. This method will create a lot of unneccessary traffic, since all clients will make these requests even if there is no update to the server. Another alternative is to make a similar request, but if there is no update, the server will not answer but instead keeps the connection open for a while, waiting for an update. Keeping coonections alive like this is very resource intensive and will put a lot of stress on server performance.

3.
Web application deployment means making you application available for use, for example putting it online for people to see and try. To do this you first need a web server to host your application. The pieces needed for the server are firstly the server files, in other words the server code you have written, and also the files that are to be served to the client as in the case with our Twidder app. It might also need a database and the connection to this database if you are going to need it. It might need some configurations, like security and network settings. A cache is something you could use to speed up your servers performance. 