Answers Lab2

1.
If you store passwords in plain text, this will pose a big security risk if someone somehow gains access to your database. This means that this person will have access to your password, in plain text, and will have no problem using it to log in and steal your account. To fix this issue, passwords should be encrypted and stored as a hash of the original password. When you sign in, the server will use the same encryption method to check that it matches the hash in the database, and unless you use a very common password, this will make it hard for someone to guess. To further improve security, you should use salt, which means adding random data to change the hash, making it harder for someone with bad intentions to crack.

2.
A normal text-base request or response, using the HTTP protocol, is not considered to be safe and it is readable to anyone who comes across it. To respond to this insecurity another protocol is widely used over the internet. This protocol is called HTTPS, where "S" stands for "Security", and is a normal HTTP protocol layered on top of a SSL/TLS protocol. 

Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Secure Socket Layer (SSL) are cryptographic protocols which are designed to provide communication security over the internet. They use a certificate called X.509 which hence asymmetric cryptography to assure the counter parties with whom they are communicating. Also a symmetric key is exchanged and used to encrypt data transferred between both parties.

HTTPS protects the user against eavesdropping, tempering and changing of the content of requests or responses being sent.

4.
SQLite is, compared to many other database management systems, a lightweight, serverless, fast to setup and easy to use DBMS. SQLite is a DBMS that is very well suited for testing and embedding in applications.

Being serverless means SQLite does not use, as many other DBMSs does, any interprocess communication like TCP/IP. Instead SQLite read or write directly from the database file on the disk. This is one of the main causes why SQLite is easy to setup; there are no separate server to install and care about. This also means that anyone who has a access to the file on the disk is able to use the database.

This has made SQLite very popular and widely used as an embedded database for local storage in many programs like web browsers and even operating systems.